Neural Control Mode (#24366)
PX4/PX4-Autopilot: docs/en/advanced/nn_module_utilities.md

# Neural Network Module Utilities

> This page will explain the parts of the module that do not directly concern something with the neural network, but PX4 related implementations, so that you easily can shape the module to your needs.

Reviewer: What module? I mean I know what module, but someone might come to this page by searching. 
So something like 
```suggestion
This page explains the parts of the [name-of-module module](link to module) that do not directly concern something with the neural network, but PX4 related implementations, so that you easily can shape the module to your needs.
```

Reviewer: YOu can refer to it as "the module" after the first definition

To learn more about how PX4 works in general, it is recommended to start with [Getting started](../dev_setup/getting_started.md).

## Autostart

In the PX4-Autopilot source code there are startup scripts, in these I have added a line for the mc_nn_control module. in ROMFS/px4fmu_common/init.d/rc.mc_apps it checks wether the module is included by looking for the parameter MC_NN_EN. If this is set to 1, which is the default value, the module will be started when booting PX4. Similarly you could create other parameters in the src/modules/mc_nn_control/mc_nn_control_params.c file for other startup script checks.

:::info
Note that it's only the first time you build that the default param value will overwrite the current one. So if you change it in the param file it will not be changed when flashing to the controller again. To do this you can change it in QGC or in the [terminal](../modules/modules_command.md#param).
:::

## Custom Flight Mode

> The module creates its own flight mode "Neural Control" which lets you choose it from the flight mode menu in QGC and bind it to a switch on you RC controller. This is done by using the [ROS 2 Interface Library](../ros2/px4_ros2_interface_lib.md) internally. This involves several steps:

Author: The main goal of the entire PR is to make it easier for people who train NNs to test them on actual drones. To showcase the module I made a NN position controller that publishes motor commands. Since the module can't take off or land etc and is mostly a showcase I still want the classical controllers so I can takeoff, and if to unstable, have it as a fallback. So the main goal for the showcase is to show that a small nn trained in sim can successfully control a drone running on an embedded flight controller. The flight mode is just to make this possible

> # Neural Network Module: System Integration

Reviewer: FYI, note the rename. It isn't so much utilities, as "broader integration into PX4". Please read the rest of this.

The topic covers the changes that were made to integrate the module into PX4, both within the module, and in larger system configuration.

::: tip
This topic should help you to shape the module to your own needs.

You will need some familiarity with PX4 development.
For more information see the developer [Getting Started](../dev_setup/getting_started.md).
:::

## Autostart

A line to autostart the [mc_nn_control](../modules/modules_controller.md#mc_nn_control) module has been added in the [`ROMFS/px4fmu_common/init.d/rc.mc_apps`](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/ROMFS/px4fmu_common/init.d/rc.mc_apps) startup script.

It checks whether the module is included by looking for the parameter [MC_NN_EN](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#MC_NN_EN).
If this is set to `1` (the default value), the module will be started when booting PX4.
Similarly you could create other parameters in the [`mc_nn_control_params.c`](https://github.com/PX4/PX4-Autopilot/blob/main/src/modules/mc_nn_control/mc_nn_control_params.c) file for other startup script checks.

## Custom Flight Mode

> 

Reviewer: What you are doing here is integrating a mode so the neural network can be tested. 

To do this you are creating a custom ROS2 mode by hacking the internal UORB topics used by the PX4 ROS2 interface library. Essentially you're making the internal module create an external mode.

What I would have expected to happen is that you would create a statically "normal PX4 mode".

This is a hack, though I think it is a good one :-)

If you created this as a proper mode you would first have to learn how (which would suck with the documentation we have). Secondly, you might have to update  a whole bunch of other modules to create that mode, which wouldn't make sense for something that is experimental and you want to be able to replace.
The alternative would be to create this as a flight task and integrate it into an existing mode - again, I think a deeper integration than you want.

Its quite tricky, and I like it.

For these messages to be saved in your logs you need to include `debug` in the [SDLOG_PROFILE](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#SDLOG_PROFILE) parameter.

## Timing

The module has two includes for measuring the inference times.
The first one is a driver that works on the actual flight controller units, but a second one, `chrono`, is loaded for SITL testing.
Which timing library is included and used is based on wether PX4 is built with NUTTX or not.

## Changing the setpoint

The module uses the [TrajectorySetpoint](../msg_docs/TrajectorySetpoint.md) message’s position fields to define its target. To follow a trajectory, you can send updated setpoints. For an example of how to do this in a px4 module, see the [mc_nn_testing](https://github.com/SindreMHegre/PX4-Autopilot-public/tree/main/src/modules/mc_nn_testing) module in this fork. Note that this is not included in upstream PX4. To use it, copy the module folder from the linked repository into your workspace, and enable it by adding the following line to your `.px4board` file:

```sh
CONFIG_MODULES_MC_NN_TESTING=y

> ```

Author: @Pedro-Roque Now the whole thing is visible
